---
layout: page
title: Acknowledgements
redirect_from: /acknowledgements/
---

#### National Science Foundation

The [National Science Foundation](http://nsf.gov) is supporting the
development of both the university courses and this site through
grant [0953694](/awardsearch/showAward.do?AwardNumber=0953694 "Use this link to retrieve the award").

#### Department of Biology at Utah State University

USU's [Department of Biology](http://www.biology.usu.edu) and in
particular [Dept. Head Butch
Brodie](http://www.biology.usu.edu/htm/our-people/faculty/memberID=3059)
and former [Dept. Head Daryll
Dewald](http://facultystaff.wsu.edu/adminphotos/?faculty/67) have
supported the development of the university courses through time off
from other teaching endeavors and facilitating access to appropriate
classroom facilities (which is [harder to obtain than you might
think](http://jabberwocky.weecology.org/2011/06/27/why-computer-labs-should-never-be-controlled-by-individual-collegesdepartments/)).

#### Software Carpentry

[Software Carpentry](http://software-carpentry.org) has been teaching
scientists and engineers the concepts, skills, and tools they need to
use and build software more productively since 1977. All of the content
is freely available under a Creative Commons license (the same one we
use here), and the existence of this content not only saves me a massive
amount of time and effort, but also taught me a lot of what I know about
programming well.

#### Drupal

This site runs on the excellent, open-source,
[Drupal](http://drupal.org) content management system.

#### A Small Orange

We are happily hosted by [A Small
Orange](http://customers.asmallorange.com/aff.php?aff=26273 "A Small Orange"),
a small Atlanta based hosting company that focuses on providing a top
quality customer experience. The combination of rapid, high quality
customer service and a willingness to work happily with beginners makes
them an excellent host for scientific endeavors on the web. You can save
15% on new hosting and help support ProgrammingForBiologists.org by
using this coupon (SAVEATASO) during signup.
