Computational Biology Project
-----------------------------

BIOL 4040/6040, 1 Credits, Fall 2014

### Professor

Dr. Ethan White

Office: BNR 139

Email (best way to contact me):
[ethan.white@usu.edu](mailto:ethan.white@usu.edu)

Phone: 797-2097


### Meeting Dates, Times & Location

Dates: Last 4 weeks of semester

Times: Mon-Wed-Fri 1:00 – 1:50 pm.

Location: BNR 7


### Office Hours

Times: Mon-Wed-Fri 1:50 pm - 2:50 pm or by appointment.

Location: In the classroom

*Note: my schedule gets very busy during the semester so please try to schedule
appointments as far in advance as possible. In general it will be very difficult
to set up appointments less than 24 hours in advance.*


### Prerequisites

You should have taken either Programming for Biologists or Database Management
for Biologists.


### Course Objectives

In this course you will learn how to conduct computational research projects
like those used in biological research. You will do this primarily by conducting
a computational research project related to your interests. This project can
relate to either programming or database management (or a combination of the
two) and will build on the skills you learned in the prerequisite courses. By
working on a larger project you will learn more about the challenges of
conducting research using computers and will further develop your computational
background in an area that you wish to specialize in. You will also learn tools
and approaches for managing research level computing problems.

1. Learn standard approaches and tools for computational research projects
2. Apply these tools to address real research questions in biology


### Website

The syllabus and other relevant class information and resources will be posted
at [http://programmingforbiolgists.org](http://programmingforbiolgists.org/).
Changes to the schedule will be posted to this site so please try to check it
periodically for updates.


### Course Management Email List

In order to provide timely updates and helpful material to students, and to
request feedback from students during the semester, I maintain a course email
list. On the first day of class you will provide your preferred email for this
list. Students are required to be aware of emails sent to this list.


### Grading

Grading for this course will be based entirely on the research project, which
will be graded on the quality of the code and database management resources.

Final grades will be assigned based on the following scale:

- **A 93-100**
- **A- 90-92**
- **B+ 87-89**
- **B 83-86**
- **B- 80-82**
- **C+ 77-79**
- **C 73-76**
- **C- 70-72**
- **D+ 67-69**
- **D 60-66**
- **F \<60**


### Student’s Responsibilities

Students are expected to design a computational biology project related to their
interests that will advance their knowledge of computational tools and improve
their current and/or future professional activities, conduct that project under
the guidance of the instructor, and ask for help early if they are having trouble.


### Instructor’s Responsibilities

I expect myself to prepare and deliver high quality introductions to material on
how to conduct computational research projects, be available to advise students
on their projects and help when they run into problems, and provide detailed
feedback and comments on the projects intended to help students develop their
abilities to work with computers and data.


### Academic Honesty

Utah State University expects students and faculty to maintain the highest
standards of academic honesty. Students can find information on Utah State’s
regulations on Article V, Section 3 of the Student Code, which is accessible at
[http://www.usu.edu/studentservices/pdf/StudentCode.pdf](http://www.usu.edu/studentservices/pdf/StudentCode.pdf).


### Students with Disabilities

Students with physical, sensory, emotional or medical impairments may be
eligible for reasonable accommodations in accordance with the Americans with
Disabilities Act and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.  All
accommodations are coordinated through the Disability Resource Center (DRC) in
Room 101 of the University Inn, 797-2444 voice, 797-0740 TTY, or toll free at
1-800-259-2966. Please contact the DRC as early in the semester as
possible. Alternate format materials (Braille, large print or digital) are
available with advance notice.


### Class and Classroom Manners

I do not take attendance and therefore I expect that if you are in class you are
here to learn. So, please, turn off your cell phones, resist the urge to send
email and text messages, etc. Basically I’m just asking that you be respectful
of your fellow students and myself. This class is a collaborative learning
experience. If you have already finished with what we are working on then find
another student to help.
